Creating a Decision Support Framework from National Occupational Accidents Data with Machine Learning Approach

Employees are injured, become unable to work and even lose their lives as a result of work accidents.  Determining factors behind and presenting them to decision makers play an important role in making the right decisions to prevent occupational accidents. One of the most important sources that can be used in the determination of these factors is the nationally collected work accident data and data mining techniques offer opportunities in finding patterns when collected data is large size and has many parameters that increase the computational load. With this study a machine learning framework is developed to transform the complex structure of national occupational accident database into decision support dataset that sheds light on the measures to be taken by the relevant government agencies and decision makers in the private sector. 

The proposed framework is a two-level model consisting of predicting factors behind the accidents’ injury severity by Gradient Boosting Machines Algorithm (GBM) and revealing the rules of accident chains with factors found to be effective by Association Rule Mining. Two different approaches were determined while creating association rules. In the first approach, the aim is to reveal the effect of indirect variables (month, city, education and experience level etc.) on the accidents with the determined binary severity (fatal vs. nonfatal, major vs. minor etc.). In the second approach, the aim is to determine the accident chains with found to be effective direct variables, resulting as a type of injury, the location of the wound in the body and the binary severity. The proposed framework developed by an application with a dataset contains 187,910 national accidents that occurs between the years 2013-2017 in Turkey and 316,557 accident chains were revealed in total. The ultimate goal of this framework is to automatize the process and reveal up to date accident chains to present them to decision makers.
